Describe how to develop an extension using gradle (#21456)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/building-my-first-extension.adoc

Now that everything is explained, we can start coding!

== Project setup

Extensions can be built with either Maven or Gradle. Depending on your build tool, setup can be done as following:

> NOTE: The gradle extension plugin is still experimental and may be missing features available in the maven plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The Gradle extension plugin is still experimental and may be missing features available in the Maven plugin.
```

<3> We add  the `quarkus-bootstrap-maven-plugin` to generate the Quarkus extension descriptor included into the runtime artifact which links it with the corresponding deployment artifact.
<4> We add  the `quarkus-extension-processor` to the compiler annotation processors.

=== Gradle setup

> Quarkus does not provide any way to initialize a gradle project for extension yet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Quarkus does not provide any way to initialize a Gradle project for extension yet.
```

Reviewer 2: There is a way to do that using the CLI. `quarkus create --gradle`. You could reference the CLI page.

> Quarkus does not provide any way to initialize a Gradle project for extension yet.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Quarkus does not provide any way to initialize a Gradle project for extensions yet.
```

As mentionned before, an extension is composed of two modules:

* `runtime`
* `deployment`

> We are going to create a gradle multi module project with those two modules. Here is a simple `settings.gradle` example file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are going to create a Gradle multi module project with those two modules. Here is a simple `settings.gradle` example file:
```

[source, groovy]
----
pluginManagement {
    repositories {
        mavenCentral()
        gradlePluginPortal()
    }
    plugins {
        id 'io.quarkus.extension' version "${quarkus.version}" <1>
    }
}

include 'runtime', 'deployment' <2>

rootProject.name = 'greeting-extension'
----

<1> Configure the quarkus extension plugin version
<2> Include both `runtime` and `deployment` modules

Here is a sample of a root `build.gradle` file:

[source, groovy]
----
subprojects {
    apply plugin: 'java-library' <1>
    apply plugin: 'maven-publish' <2>

    group 'org.acme' <3>
    version '1.0-SNAPSHOT'
}
----

<1> Apply the `java-library` plugin for all sub-modules
<2> Apply the `maven-publish` plugin used to publish our artifacts
<3> Globally set the group id used for publication

The `io.quarkus.extension` plugin will be used in order to help us building the extension.
The plugin will *only* be applied to the `runtime` module.

==== The deployment module

> The deployment module is does not require any specific plugin.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The deployment module does not require any specific plugin.
```

Here is an example of a minimal `build.gradle` file for the `deployment` module:

[source, groovy]
----
name = 'greeting-extension-deployment' <1>

dependencies {
    implementation project(':runtime') <2>

    implementation platform("io.quarkus:quarkus-bom:${quarkus.version}")

    testImplementation 'io.quarkus:quarkus-junit5-internal'
}
----

<1> By convention, the deployment module has the `-deployment` suffix (`greeting-extension-deployment`).
<2> The deployment module *must* depend on the `runtime` module.

==== The runtime module

The runtime module applies the `io.quarkus.extension` plugin. This will:

* Add `quarkus-extension-process` as annotation processor to both modules.
* Generate extension description files.

Here is an example of `build.gradle` file for the `runtime` module:

[source, groovy]
----
plugins {
    id 'io.quarkus.extension' <1>
}

> name = 'greeting-extension' <2>

Reviewer 3: Is there a way to set the description of the extension too?

Author: yes sure I'm adding one.

dependencies {
    implementation platform("io.quarkus:quarkus-bom:${quarkus.version}")
}
----

<1> Apply the `io.quarkus.extension` plugin.

> <2> By convention, the runtime module has no suffix (`greeting-extension`) as it is the artifact exposed to the end user

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<2> By convention, the runtime module doesn't have a suffix (and thus is named `greeting-extension`) as it is the artifact exposed to the end user.
```

    </dependency>
----

> For gradle, add the dependency in `./greeting-extension/runtime/build.gradle` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Gradle, add the dependency in `./greeting-extension/runtime/build.gradle` file:
```

NOTE: The dependency on `quarkus-arc-deployment` generated by the `create-extension` mojo can now be removed since
`quarkus-undertow-deployment` already depends on it.

> For gradle, add the dependency in `./greeting-extension/deployment/build.gradle` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Gradle, add the dependency in `./greeting-extension/deployment/build.gradle` file:
```

    ...
    <dependency>
      <groupId>io.rest-assured</groupId>
      <artifactId>rest-assured</artifactId>
      <scope>test</scope>
    </dependency>
----

> For gradle, add the dependency in `./greeting-extension/deployment/build.gradle` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Gradle, add the dependency in `./greeting-extension/deployment/build.gradle` file:
```
